title: Attaining the Clandestine T-Mobile $30 5GB Plan
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2013-11-20
slug: tmobile
tags: life

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/nzpcdqI.png
    where: top
    caption: That plan down low, but a plan kept down-low.
---

T-Mobile offers an extremely competitive monthly no-contract plan:
**$30 for 5GB of 4G/LTE data, 100min. talk, and unlimited text**. With hotspot,
and after 5GB, data is rate-limited to 2G speeds. It's such a great deal,
T-Mobile is keeping it hush, pushing it to the fine-print, and ordering hits on
anyone shouting it from the streets. This plan is an online-exclusive and
requires careful steps to acquire. But worth.

---

Compare it to T-Mobile's more loudly-advertised prepaid plans:

- $30 for 30MB data and 1500min. talk/text.
- $60 for 2.5GB data and unlimited talk/text.
- $70 for unlimited data, unlimited talk/text, and no hotspot.

And compare it to AT&T's plans, which are all theft on the magnitude of Ocean's Eleven:

- $25 for 250min. talk, unlimited text, and 0MB + $5/50MB data.
- $40 for 500min. talk, unlimited text. 200MB + $5/50MB.
- $60 for unlimited talk/text and 2GB + $10/1GB data.

If you're one to chatter on the phone for hours, you can stop reading here, as
the $30 plan only offers 100 minutes of text (though if you're using AT&T, I'd
consider the switch).

But if you got tight lips and a large mouth for data, this plan is minty. However,
if you're an existing T-Mobile customer, you can't just simply switch to this
plan. And if you're an AT&T or other customer, you can't just simply activate a
new plan in-store. Here are the conditions:

- New activations only.
- Online only.

New activations only so if you're already a T-Mobile customer, you may have to
get a new number. Other customers can port their number into T-Mobile when
activating online.

T-Mobile claims that this plan is a Walmart exclusive and that you must buy a
T-Mobile Walmart phone kit, however, that's a lie. They state this on their
website, they stated me this at Walmart, and they stated me this when talking
to T-Mobile customer representatives on the phone/chat. T-Mobile stores
themselves will usually 'fess up though. Here are the steps to get the plan.

##Get a T-Mobile Phone

You will need a T-Mobile phone to activate the plan online, or an IMEI serial
number of a T-Mobile phone. If you are switching to T-Mobile, it might be
safe to say you will buy a T-Mobile phone. If you are already on T-Mobile, well,
that's moot. If you are trying to use it on a non-T-Mobile unlocked phone, you
can buy a cheap phone just for the number. The plan will be worth buying a
throwaway phone. For me, I had an iPhone 5 during the summer (I found
my unlocked AT&T Galaxy S2 wasn't capable of 3G/4G data on T-Mobile, and did
not like the HTC One/Galaxy S4/Nexus 4).

##Buy a T-Mobile SIM Card Activation Kit Online

T-Mobile stores mostly don't sell these kits. But they are acquired easily
online, that includes straight from T-Mobile's website. T-Mobile often runs a
deal that comes up about once a month where they [give these kits
away](http://slickdeals.net/permadeal/106422/t-mobile---t-mobile-prepaid-phone-sim-card-activation-kit-full-micro-or-nano-size)
**for free**. They are regularly $10. Here are links to where you can order
T-Mobile SIM activation kits:

- [T-Mobile Full-Size SIM Card Activation Kit](http://prepaid-phones.t-mobile.com/prepaid-phone/T-Mobile-Prepaid-SIM-Activation-Kit-No-Annual-Contract?AID=11456737&PID=1225267)
- [T-Mobile Micro SIM Card Activation Kit](http://prepaid-phones.t-mobile.com/prepaid-phone/T-Mobile-Micro-SIM-Card-Activation-Kit-No-Annual-Contract?AID=11456737&PID=1225267)
- [T-Mobile Nano (iPhone 5+) SIM Card Activiation Kit](http://prepaid-phones.t-mobile.com/prepaid-phone/T-Mobile-Nano-SIM-Card-Prepaid?AID=11456737&PID=1225267)

## Activate Online

Once you receive your kit, you should now have three necessary things to
activate the new plan:

- T-Mobile phone IMEI serial number (comes on phone box)
- SIM card number (comes with kit)
- Activation Code (comes with kit)

Then head over to
[T-Mobile](http://prepaid-phones.t-mobile.com/prepaid-activate) to activate
your SIM card on a prepaid phone plan. Follow the steps, and yes, I know
T-Mobile's web forms are totally jank, to activate. If you are considering
porting your phone number from another service, there will be an option to do
so.

Existing T-Mobile customers should get an error if trying to port. I tried
calling T-Mobile to port my number manually, but what they did was activate my
new SIM card on my existing line and deactivated my old one, which was not what
I wanted. I had to buy another activation kit.

##Choose Your Plan Online (For the Win)

Once you get to this portion, the $30 plan should be an option. It should say
100mins of talk, 5GB of data, unlimited text, and *new activations only*. We've
gotten this far, click that victory radio button, and the plan should now be
yours. Pay the $30 to fill the account (I used a T-Mobile $30 refill card),
set up auto-pay if you wish.

The plan has been up for almost a couple years, but do it now before too many
people notice and they rescind the plan! Enjoy your five gee-bees per month
for cheeps!
