title: "Poker Session #2 - 663% ROI"
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2014-01-15
slug: "poker2"
tags: poker

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/WVuj6xb.jpg
    where: top
---

An all-day Saturday session at the Encore Poker club. I spent the week throwing
back to the old poker days, lurking the 2+2 forums, picking up the Harrington
on Hold'em books, and listening to poker podcasts during my 5-minute commute
and work-outs. My blog now even features its own [poker
section](/blog/tags/poker) after bouncing back in forth between migrating it to
[Octopress](http://octopress.org) and then standing pat with
[Wok](http://wok.mythmon.com). Wok suits me better with less boilerplate, a
better templating engine, and more support for non-blog pages. Anyways, after a
few monkey-patches with Wok and a custom virutalenv, I'm ready to write some
poker.

I played two MTTs, a 70-man freeroll and a 30-man $500-guaranteed. Made it to
the final tables in both, and cashed in both with a 9th place finish in the
freeroll for $45 and a 2nd place finish in the $500-guaranteed for $265.  Last
session, I cashed in 5th at the $500-guaranteed for $80. So things are rolling well.
Whether I'm running hot, or I'm playing solid, only sample size will tell.

---

## Freeroll - 9th Place for $45

I was actually a bit sick, developing a small cough, when I played the day, but
nothing too bad. The field was large at 70 people. I played tight in the early
blind rounds, gaining a large lead on my table. My first big pot involved a
flush over flush.  We both hit our flushes on the turn, mine bigger. He bet, I
raised, and we eventually got it all in. He lost with his 9-high to my T-high
flush. He said he was value-raising possibly against the straight on the board,
but I told him I wouldn't raise a straight so aggressively on a flush board.

I held 88 and raised preflop and got heads-up with an old guy. My read on him
was that he liked to chase draws hard. I flopped a set, but on a two-tone board.
Seeing the draws out there, I elected not to slow-play and bet around 3/4 pot. He
flatted. I put him on the draw and my set was pretty much the nuts. He lead out on
the turn where I shoved. He correctly folded, knowing he didn't have the odds
to peel off one more to the flush.

At the break, I took the add-on to give me a larger stack.

### Freeroll - The Silent Assassin

After a while, a older guy wearing a beret noticed me at the table with a large
stack. Though I gained them pretty quietly. He coined me *the Silent Assassin*
since I rarely talk at the table yet I was stacking people. One day, I would be
on a TV table at the World Poker Tour where the commentators would refer to me
as the Assassin. I thought that was amusing, I don't have any other poker
nickname, so I'll take it.

In a 4-way pot, I held Js2s on the big blind. The table limped around to me, and
I checked going to a 4-way pot. I flopped a spade flush. Being 4-way, I figured
someone was holding a Ks or As. I potted. The UTG, who limped, raised. Everyone
else folded. I didn't want any more cards to peel, so I 4-bet 3x here and
snap-called the shove. He showed AsAx, overpair with a draw to the nut flush.
A bit of a cooler for him, that's a good hand to get it in with, but my hand
held to take the pot.

My stack decreased in relative size, however as the blinds raised. Before long,
I was a relatively short stack. I shoved with A4o on the button and was called
by JTo. A coin-flip, but I held up on the river. I talked to him later, grudging
me for busting him out, but I didn't recognize him later.

### Freeroll - Busting the Final Table

My stint at the final table was short-lived. I had a short to medium stack.
I picked up AQo on the button and accidentally min-raised, not knowing about
the recent increase in blinds. The small blind, a reg wearing a poker beanie
with large black disk earrings, 3-bet with 88, and I 4-bet shoved. I lost the
flip when he hit a set on the turn. He mentioned 88 was his favorite hand, and
he only 3-bet because I min-raised, putting me on a small pocket pair. If I had
made a 3x pre-flop raise, he would have flatted, and I could have c-bet to take
down the flop. Bummer.

Hand before the break, I receive KQo on the small blind. The reg from earlier
raised from UTG. I thought for a while about shoving, but thought his UTG range
was too strong. He showed JJ, which would have been the best I could've hoped
for. I said I had two overs. A reg on my left knew it was KQ. He said that
would've been good to shove, but I knew at best his early position raise range
had me dominated.

Later I receive 88 on the button. I raise 3x, and get 3-bet again by the same
reg. I 4-bet shove, and he calls with AQo. A mirror situation from earlier.
Unfortunately, he gets the good side of the coin both times when he hits a J
for the straight, and I bust for min-cash.

## $500 Guaranteed - 2nd for $220

After not eating all day by 4pm, I ordered some chicken strips before the
tourney, and they were delivered after I sat on a small food cart.

My stack wasn't doing to well for this tourney by the break so I didn't add-on,
not expecting to cash. I had AKo twice in my first few hands, but my c-bets
failed to lose a portion of my stack. There was a pretty talkative guy to my
left who I had a tell on, he would always handle his chips prematurely as he
was getting ready for a raise. Sometimes I would start to raise, look over, and
simply check or call.

I earned the award for the Table Rebalance Donkey, as I was moved to a
different table five times over the course of the tourney, having to move my
food cart along with me.

I focused on reading the guy on my right, a black guy with a spiked baseball
cap, sunglasses, and a golden watch (call him "Spikes"). I got pretty
short-stacked, paying close attention to my tournament M-ratio, the ratio of my
stack to the total blinds per round. Once it dropped below 6, it was pretty
much shove-or-fold. I was in the big blind with K9o and 4 players limped around
to me. I shoved to pick up the dead money. Everyone folded, but Spikes thought
for a long while, perhaps with a small pocket pair or weak broadways. I stared
at the felt hoping for the fold, and after nearly calling, he mucked, and my
stack was back to the Orange Zone.

I got into a hand with Spikes a couple minutes later, where I picked up AA in
middle position. Spikes raised pre-flop, and I shoved on him again. I could
have raised small, but I know that he just saw me shove and he almost called.
I figured he wouldn't take that twice in a row. So it folded around and he
called with 77. My aces held to double up.

Once it got down to 4-handed, we agreed to pay the bubble. Then it got down to
3: me, Spikes, and a talkative maybe-reg with glasses who reminded me of Amir
from CollegeHumor. I quickly stack him with QQ over AQo all-in pre-flop. And
I go heads-up with Spikes.

### $500 Guaranteed - Heads-Up

I'm not particularly great at heads-up, but I thought I could outplay Spikes.
We went back and forth a lot. The dynamic was he would shove very, very often,
and while I was aggressive pre-flop and on the flop, I didn't have it to call.
I doubled up on the flop, with JTs, hitting my open-ended straight on the turn.

The final was me on the button, raising with K6s. He shoves. He had me covered,
and I think K6s is good enough to get it in with someone shoving so light. He
flips 34o; I had it dominated with two overs (4:1 in my favor). Unfortunately,
he hits a 4 on the river to end the tourney. Well, you win some, you lose some,
I was happy to get it ahead and get some heads-up experience. I tipped the
dealer $20.

I stayed at the club a few more hours to watch the Blazers game and work on the
failed Octopress blog migration. I maybe should have played the $8000 guaranteed
considering the club was pitching in $3000, but I was satisfied with taking
home $265. I'll go again in a couple of weeks after I get back from Corvallis.
I found out one of my co-workers is a poker player too, with a pretty juicy
background, so I'll play with him at the club once he flies over to Portland
for our team work-week.

+$190
