title: "Poker Sessions #7/8/9 - So I'm Not Immortal"
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2014-02-17
slug: poker7
tags: poker

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/sYHbfGx.jpg
    caption: weeee.
---

Over the last several days, I played at the [Encore](http://encoreclub.cpm),
[Spirit Mountain](http://spiritmountain.com), and the [Final
Table](http://pokerportland.com). A small downswing, making breakeven for the
week. I played poorly at the Encore but just ran card dead and coolered in the
latter two. Used to it though and still eager to play with the games being
really soft. So. much. old. people.

---

## Encore Club 6pm $500 Guaranteed - Busted

Tuesday night. With about 24 players in, I was able to stumble my way into
around 7th. I made two related blunders over the course of this tourney:
handling an all-in with players left to call.

When a player goes all-in, and you are holding a hand you want to play (say
JJ), you want to raise to protect your hand and get it heads-up. In the first
instance, player to my right shoves. I hold JJ so I push all-in for deep.
Unfortunately, SB shows up with KK. Lesson learned, only raise around 2.5x
for hand protection leaving me room to play post-flop or fold to a 4bet.

In the second instance, I was on the button with A9o. A player shoves for 2.5x,
and I flat. That was a mistake; I either should have protected my hand or
folded. The BB called. Another blunder, I expected to check it down. Flop comes
A9x two-tone for second pair. I should have bet to get the eventual flush draw
paying, and I shouldn't have paid off a double-barrel on the river for half my
stack.

## Spirit Mountain Cash Game - -$10

My girlfriend and I drove to the Spirit Mountain Casino on a Sunday to check it
out. I played in a $1/$3 game for four hours.

Everyone was really old. Like farmer grandpa old. It was a soft game, limping
everywhere. I played pretty optimally but got sucked out on one of the early
hands to make it a session where I lose to the house rake.

I hold TT UTG. I raise 3x, one caller. I lead out the flop. Guy calls with
ace-high-no-kicker. Turn comes an A. I double-barrel and shut down after the
call for a -$90 pot. When he showed A2o or whatever, I was a bit confounded
on the preflop call and flop call. But whatever, the game was soft and I was
able to grind back through a card-dead session.

An old lady asked me how old I was and complimented "oh, good for you!".

## Final Table

I spent my holiday (President's Day) at the Final Table, playing three
tournaments. I got coolered, finished a min-cash, then got double sucked-out.

### 11am $1000 Guaranteed - Busted

Pretty standard up until I got coolered straight over straight. GG.

### 3pm $25 Buy-in Freezeout - 5th Place for $35

Min-cash. Yay. I played standard to the final table where I started getting
aggressive as the blinds raised. Another Vietnamese-American player was pretty
cool to me and was calling me K-Fed and Young Buck (because I was the youngest
and everyone was old). I calculated my M-ratio to be 5 so I shoved with 56s in
the CO. Someone woke up with KK. GG.

### 5pm $300 Guaranteed Freeroll - Double Busted

I get it in two-pair. Old guy calls my cbet with air. We get it in and he runs
runner-runner flush for my stack. Rebuy.

I hold QQ. Someone shoves with JKo, I reshove, same old guy calls with 99. Old
guy spikes a 9. Meh, going home.

## Session Conclusion

- **Went Well**: playing more disciplined TAG poker
- **Mistakes**: protect hand after an all-in but not too much
- **Get Better At**: developing a system to keep track of reads
- **Profit**: -$125
