title: "Poker for Beginners"
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2014-03-07
slug: betfair
tags: poker

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/1xDK1kB.jpg
    caption: Texas Hold'em Tips and Techniques for every experience level.
---

I've been asked on several occasions to teach others the techniques that have
helped me become a seasoned poker player over the years. Wanting to provide
some solid tips, and better my own play for future games of Texas Hold'em, I
thought it would be a good idea to review some strategies I used while learning
the game.

---

## First Steps for Beginners

For those that are just starting out, it's important to learn the rules and
lingo of Texas Hold'em. [Betfair](https://poker.betfair.com/) has a great
breakdown of the game
[basics](https://poker.betfair.com/how-to-play/texas-holdem/) with easy to
understand descriptions of blinds, and the three different types of limit
variants.

Once you to understand the rules, it's easier to remember the different plays
you're able to make throughout the game. If you're only focusing on making
pairs, three of kind, and four of a kind, you're going to be wiped out in just
a few rounds. I've seen too many beginners throw away a good hand because they
forgot what cards make up a flush.

## Calculating Your Odds

After you've mastered the vocabulary and understand different possible hands,
you can move forward to strategizing your plays based on statistics. No, you
won't be counting cards, but knowing the odds plays a key role in how you
should bet.
[Pokerology](http://www.pokerology.com/lessons/math-and-probability/) has
detailed descriptions of statistics and common mathematical equations you can
use to give you a leg up on your competitors.

Even if you're not a math wiz, you can still do some basic mathematical
reasoning with the information you're presented with on the table. Considering
how many players are at the table, and how many cards have been distributed,
what's the likelihood that your card is still going to be played?

On the other hand, keep in mind if you never take the risk, you're never going
to get ahead (It's called gambling for a reason!). But if you're strategy is to
keep betting and always hoping the fifth street will complete a play for you,
you're going to be out pretty quick.

## Size Up Your Competition

When you're ready to take your game to the next level, you can start to
strategize beyond your own cards. Professional poker players are constantly
thinking about what hands are possible for their fellow players to make after
the flop, (as well as after the turn, and the river).

[Ed Miller](https://twitter.com/EdMillerPoker), author of Playing The Player:
Moving Beyond ABC Poker To Dominate Your Opponents, touched on the importance
of playing defensively during and article he wrote for [Card
Player](http://www.cardplayer.com/poker-news/14712-poker-strategy-the-top-five-no-limit-hold-em-lessons)
, stating, "Your job as a poker player is to identify the strategy each
opponent is using and deploy a counter strategy. In many cases, the two cards
in your hand become irrelevant. My experience is that the players that are
always thinking about their hands never figure it out. It's the players who are
thinking on the next level that do."

Pay attention to when your competition checks, folds, and raises. This will
help you better assess any routine patterns or habits. And if you're really
feeling witty, you can try to pick up on any tells, ticks, or physical
characteristics your fellow players may show when they have certain hands, to
give you an idea of how to better place your bet.

Remember your fellow players are being just as analytical of your actions as
well, so keep your own tells or betting routines in check!
