title: "Poker Session #13/#14/#15/#16 - The Gauntlet "
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2014-03-13
slug: poker15
tags: poker

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/7kFV7HL.jpg
    caption: Week has gone sour.
---

I played Sunday at the [Final Table](http://pokerportland.com), and Monday,
Tuesday, and Wednesday at the [Encore](http://encoreclub.com). On Sunday, I
played the freerolls, doing well as usual with a first and fifth place
finishes. After work I have been playing everyday to practice for Saturday's
$50K tournament at the Encore. The competition is a bit tougher there, but I am
tightening up my game little by little though I did not cash in any games this
week.

---

## Final Table 11am $300 Freeroll - 1st Place for $200

Not much to say here. Mostly because I don't remember anything that happened.

## Final Table 5pm $300 Freeroll - 5th Place for $45

I actually bought a stack, rebought, and added on for $45 so I came out with
what I came in. This tournament was a little unfortunate as my T7o shove got
called light by Q9o from the BB; his hand held and he ended up becoming a
nuisance all the way to my bust. He got me again with 99 over 88. Then I
started to get called light and had to limp into the final table.

Fortunately, three players were busted out in the first hand by 34o, and I
mostly folded my way to the money. A mistake, I called a raise for most of my
stack with 65o in a four-way pot to try to help bust someone out to get into
the money.

## Encore 8pm $1000 Guaranteed - Bust

There was a little spew from me going on this Monday night game. Don't remember
what happened except that I had gotten to the final table. I think I had lost a
flip and went all in blind on the button with A7o. But I vowed to myself to
tighten up my game walking home.

## Encore 6pm $500 Guaranteed - Bust

I tightened up and went to the final table again. My last hand was a poor play
where an aggressive player raised UTG, I held KQs, and elected not to shove for
some reason. He shoved on a T8x board with 9Jo, I actually called with K-high,
but got drawn out.

There was a good hand where I min-raised on the CO with A2s, got called by the
BB. Flop came JJ2r. I cbet, he check-raises. I think if he had a J, he would
slowplay one more street. I bluff catch the A turn and blank river. He shows
Q9.

## Encore 8pm $8000 Guaranteed - Bust

No mistakes this game except for the final shove. This played like a turbo, and
at my loose table I wasn't finding any good spots to shove my shortstack. I
ended up shoving J7s with 7 to act, unfortunately player to my left had QQ.  I
checked the PushBot charts, and found shoving with J7s was not profitable at a
loose table when I had an M of 3.5.

## Session Conclusions

- **Went Well:** improving post-flop hand-reading
- **Mistakes:** shoving with J7s UTG+2, will adjust after reading PushBot chart
- **Get Better At**: stricter starting hand requirements, concentration
- **Profit**: -$5
