title: "More Happiness for Your Buck"
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2014-07-17
slug: happy-money
tags: [life]

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/xZX2kN2.jpg
    caption:
---

With increasing assets, I have been thinking lately about investment, home
purchasing, vacation planning, what to purchase next. You know, personal
finances. Then I wonder how we spend in order to make ourselves happier. How
can we spend to make ourselves the happiest?

We have a fine selection of 65" 3D plasma TVs, media-integrated BMWs and Audis,
Tudor-style houses on the tree-lined avenue. Although we are all aware of the
American Dream and how we might consciously scoff at it, is it really ingrained
in our heads enough to affect our purchases? Despite being aware of
materialism, we still spend on items such as an Apple product upgrades or
matching furniture sets. But really, compared to what we could potentially be
allocating our money towards, these are all not worth it. Buck by buck, there
are happier things to spend money on and happier *ways* it.

---

## Experiences Trumps Stuff

The happiness attained from a new toy is fleeting. When I buy a gadget, I get
really excited about it for a couple weeks, and then it's just another item
on the shelf. Like in freshmen year, I dropped $70 on an HD camcorder. *"Think
about all the cool life experiences I could record!"*, I thought. After playing
around with it for a bit, it got stored away, just as Woody was when Buzz came
to town. When purchasing the camcorder, it wasn't the actual camcorder that I
wanted, it was thinking about the future *experiences* I could have.

Thinking back, the best things I have ever spent my money on were experiences.
Trips around the world, places like the cultural streets of Beijing, the
serenity of Oahu, or the cold isolation of Alaska. They bring back warm (or
perhaps cold) memories and instill a rush of nostalgia. It brought about
happiness in a way that those beat up sneakers I bought long ago or that stolen
iPod touch ever could.

It's why I changed my mind on getting a nice house or car. Why spend to be
stuck at boring old home or spend to be stuck in traffic? I'd rather use the
money saved from not splurging $300K on a house to travel abroad. Spend money
to be with people, go to places, attend shows, try new things. You won't forget
it.

## Instant Gratification is a Drag

It's not only what we spend on that makes us happy, it's how we spend. When we
spend in a way that we attain instant gratification, such as an in-store
purchase on credit of that new fridge or getting that candy bar now, it
destroys the whole fun of the waiting game. Have you ever eagerly awaited a
package to come for weeks? Thinking about all the future possibilites, things
you can do, fun you will have once that package comes. We are happier when we
await something eagerly in anticipation. It's more about the journey and not
the destination.

Just yesterday, I booked my flight and hotel to Florida to visit my girlfriend
who is working at Disney. It's almost two months out. But every day, I'll be
thinking about how much fun we'll have watching the Fantasmic fireworks, how
relaxing it will be staying at a 1940s Atlantic-city themed Disney inn, all the
delicious food at the Flying Fish. It makes me happier every day just
anticipating it with the date marked on my calendar.

When you spend on something now, and defer the actual consumption or experience
for later, you will much more gratified. Try pre-ordering something you enjoy,
plan trips out months ahead, or purchasing online. You'll probably even save
money while you're at it.

## Make It Scarce
