title: "Poker Sess.21 - To Cash Games"
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2014-12-10
slug: poker21
tags: [poker]

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/GX2UKnGl.jpg
    caption: Thrift Shoppin' at the Mozilla Work Week.
---

Launch all Mozillians to PDX for Mozlandia, an all-hands work week. A bit weird
to have a hotel in your hometown, but it helped with the experience. Being
downtown and having the poker itch, I played several nights at the Encore Poker
Club. Since the socializing over swanky dinners went late into the nights, I
didn't have the time commitment to register for any tournaments. I had been
planning on giving cash games a serious shot. With its sit-and-go nature,
I played several sessions of $1/$2.

---

I went up +$545 the first session. There was an old Asian gambler at the table
that I keyed into all night, I had value bet my hands mercilessly. I have never
seen so much action at a table.

The second night, I went up +$366. The action was still alive. Aggression was
rampant. I got into a 5-bet pot with A8s to hit a full house. Later, I lost
a large hand where I squeezed an UTG raiser with AKo, only to check-call and
check-fold a missed flop.

The third night, after Mozilla decided to surprise the crew with a surprise
Macklemore & Ryan Lewis at a venue I used to live across the street from, I
went up +$149. I saw the old Asian guy again! I rushed to the table to try to
get a seat directly on his left. Although later, I was down over two buy-ins
after making a loose call with a flush draw and two overcards on the turn, but
I tripled up with JJ all-in preflop against AK and AJ to hit a full house on
the flop.

After all the action at the Encore, I took it home to the Final Table Poker
Club. Cash games didn't fare well there. My first session there, I went down
-$280, where I felt myself becoming tilted and too aggressive. I became too
used to the action at the Encore and didn't adjust well enough for the
loose-passives.

My second session at the Final Table, I went down -$95. I lost an all-in
preflop with AQo against AJo and A9o where I limp-backraised. A 9 hit on the
river and I took a small sidepot for a net loss. There was a lady who I know
could read me for a TAG and was floating my cbets, I should be able to adjust
to those who are playing back.

With the switch to cash games, I'm trying to adjust to playing less urgently
like I would in tournaments. That means overall tighter play and more
finely-tuned postflop decision-making according to reads.
