title: "Bay Area Apartment Hunting by Sun Tzu"
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2015-2-12
slug: move
tags: [life]

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/GX2UKnGl.jpg
    caption: Malm the Bed says hello.
---

Application filled, holding deposit given, $2300 cashier's check in hand. I was
prepared to pop bottles and sign contracts. It had been a battlefield, the war
for living space against the antagonist anonymous Padmappers, and alas the end
was in sight. We finally found home in a hopeless place. Or so we thought.

It was the new year. After a surprise visit to her in Florida where she was
finishing with Disney, my freshly-engaged fiancee received a job offer at Zenni
Optical almost immediately after us returning to Oregon. It was in Novato, CA
and we we were ready to start ASAP. So we moved out, and road tripped to
California. Engagement, first job offer, relocation within a month. We were
planning to live in Richmond, until I saw that the place looked like something
out of The Wire.

The place checked out. A studio, small, though we were not hungry for square
footage. Quiet community with the property taking the full block. Quaint even
having seen a small kid inquiring his mother whether that stranger loading up
his pickup truck was his father and asking what his father looked like despite
having seen him just that morning. A friendly leasing agent representing new
management that had recently turned everything around. A fair bargain
considering the market in San Rafael of Marin County. I had taken only a few
seconds before I thought the place was perfect. En route to the world record
for fastest apartment signing. Until I received a hyperbolic-fateful text.

Never had I been *so* sure of something and then having my mind completely
changed so swiftly. It was from my fiancee, the comrade in the trenches. She
had emailed to a desirable place, the Lofts, the night before. And I had
thought it was a an email more futile than a three-hundred and sixty degree
scopeless bullet. The Lofts had not listed any available studios on their
website, supposedly a source of truth. But she seems to be the leader of
exports in miracles.

*"The Lofts just emailed me back, they have a studio open."*.

If I were to dramatize it in my mind, it would be akin to the ink of a pen
millimeters from the contract before I suddenly stood up, ripped it in half,
and skateboarded away. Indeed, I skateboarded away, pushing and sprinting to
the Lofts which was no less than three blocks from the property I was courting.
I reached the leasing office, taking a second to reset so I hadn't looked like
I just ran a three-legged marathon. The leasing agent welcomed me in.

*"So I heard you have a studio open"*

The leasing agent looked over to the other guy in the room, an older
softly-spoken man on his first day of the job.

*"See? That's how quickly they go."*, the charismatic leasing agent remarked in
amusement.

**Before they had even publically listed the studio that day, I rolled in
inquiring about it less than five minutes from when they emailed my fiancee **,
who had sent that seemingly hopeless email the night before. How nuts would
that seem sitting on the other side of the table, no less on the first day on
the job for the property! That's how quickly they go, and that's how
competitive the apartment hunt can be. Along with the dramatically larger
space, compared to the other property, at a cheaper price, they didn't even
need to tell me about the in-unit washer and dryer. Sold to the highest bidder.

I had never seen a more perfect place. Skip this paragraph if you don't want to
revel in its awesomeness. Outgoing management that really care about their
tenants, great location right off downtown near the transit center and across
the street from Safeway, bordering a green open-space park, safe and gated
community, parking garage with automatic gates, spa and BBQ amenities, clean
and bright unit with more space than needed, and cheap as sin.
