title: "Poker Sess.22 - Fresh State"
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2015-05-12
slug: poker22
tags: [poker]

image:
    url: http://imgur.com/2br7hPP.jpg
    caption: Metaphor goes here.
---

Happened to move in right next to a poker room in San Rafael, CA, [Pete's 881
Club](http://petes881club.com/) I'd been having the urge to reboot the poker. I
went to check it out. And it's solid; there's no door fee, no rake, tight ship,
and they run daily cash games until 2AM. The smallest game is 2/5NL ($500
buy-in). I haven't had much cash game experience and only played a few sessions
of 1/2NL ($200 buy-in), but took a shot. Shook off the rust and headed out.
30-second drive, and a couple of hours later, I ended the session +$165.

---

## Poker Surge

Before that, some commentary on the poker world. I imagine poker will gain some
surge of popularity. There are several [Twitch](http://twitch.tv) channels
with prominent players such as Daniel Negreanu or @nanonoko streaming their
online sessions (with a delay). Gamers might find that poker is competitively
similar to their favorite games such as League of Legends or Starcraft and
give it a shot. More good news, California is gaining ground on online poker
legislation.

## 2/5NL Session

Since I probably look 16, I got IDed right as sat.  After confirmation, I
bought in for $500. I was a new face, so people would prod about information
(what I do, where I'm from). I don't want to give too much away, but I don't
want to be too serious either. "Software. Portland".

Players were in general pretty loose (more on the passive side) so I started
tight-aggressive. Played good hands and pushed them hard. Even though $500 is a
bit of money, I wasn't scared of splashing them around. It's a game, and those
chips transform in Monopoly money or a 90s Zimbabwe dollar. Playing standard
had me up $130 within a several hands.

Two tables combined to one, and I looked to continue a run. Unfortunately, my
play degraded as I didn't adjust from 6-handed to full-ring poker.

## Bad Call with Overpair

I have **TT** on the button. First player raises, two callers. I just call with
TT since I want to be cautious with an UTG raiser. Blinds call along. Flop
comes **256 with a flush draw**. Initial raiser bets, a caller, and I 3bet. The
**SB then check-raises all-in for $190**. It folds to me. Kid starts playing
with his phone while I contemplate. I thought of his possible holdings (flush
draw, set, open-ender, sixes over fives) against my overpair. Though I
*mistakenly* called. Against that range, my hand was mostly likely behind. He
flipped two-pair, and it held. I should have probably marked him playing with
his phone as a tell that he was comfortable; a bluffer would more likely to
freeze up.

I get KK in the next hand, and try to act like I'm tilting with a 3bet.
Unfortunately, no callers.

## Bad Call with a Bluff Catcher

I make a loose raise in late position with **57s** to try to gain back some
ground. Three callers. Flop comes **QQ3**. I cbet as it'd be hard for anything
but a Queen to call. One caller so I shut down. Though I make a backdoor flush
on a QQ33x board. He bets out small $50 about third-pot, and I made a bad call
with the flush. The call on the flop is almost always a Queen (or at least a
3). I'm never ahead here.

I start getting aggressive. Maybe it's tilt, but it seems when I play in this
mode, I take down a lot of pots. I had several hands of raises and cbetting
into players.

## Flopping Quads

Well, sometimes the gods bail you out of a session. I get **KK** for the third
time in the session, and I 3-bet squeeze a straddled pot. 3 callers! The pot is
about $170 to the flop.

The window shows a K. Sweet.

And then another K. Like a dumbass, I lean out of my chair to see if this was
actually happening. The odds of flopping quads are 407-to-1. So it checks
around to me, the aggressor. I Hollywood, it's impossible for someone to have
caught a piece of the flop so I slowplay. I pick out some chips like I'm going
to do a standard cbet, and act like I'm shutting down with a check. I do this a
lot in hands when I have air as well, balancing my Oscar-winning acting job.

Someone leads out on the turn rag for $100. I act a bit perplexed, and make a
call. Obviously, if he was bluffing, he would know i have something at this
point. Everyone else folds.

Opponent checks the river. It's hard for him to have anything besides a rag
pair. I have all the Kings after all. If he boated up, he would have bet out
himself. So I make a sucker bet of probably quarter-pot to get a small pair to
call, and pot odds nearly force him to call even though I'm obviously strong
here.

I take the pot and end the session in the black. The poker journey continues.
