title: "Mozilla, Me, Programming!"
category: blog
author: Kevin Ngo <ngoke@onid.oregonstate.edu>

image:
    url: http://news.cnet.com/i/tim/2011/01/17/logo-only_270x270.png
datetime: 2011-11-09 14:30:00

---

It's difficult to believe that less than two weeks ago, I was at [Beaver
Barcamp](http://ngokevin.com/blog/recap:-beaver-bar-camp-8/index.html) talking
to [Julie Deroche](http://jgoulie.blogspot.com/) about applying for an
internship at open source giant, [Mozilla](http://mozilla.org). I figured I had
a bit of a chance of getting accepted so what the hell, I went for it. I handed
Julie my resume, said I was interested in **web development** and security, had a
chat, and then I went on my merry way.

If I were to go into web development, I had to learn some Javascript so I spent
that whole weekend working on the [OSULUG website](http://lug.oregonstate.edu),
revamping it yet again with some jQuery magic. I then sent in my resume again
via email and got was shortly scheduled an interview the following day. The
interview was in a few days so I decided to crack out on some web development
material, namely Javascript and web security and scalability. I went into what
I called *Mozilla Mode* and diverted a good portion of my attention away from
school.

I had my first phone screen with [Ricky Rosario](http://rickyrosario.com), a
web-dev at Mozilla. The interview itself went largely well, except I was at
work at Kerr at the time and couldn't really find a quiet spot. I initially sat
in front of an elevator on a high floor, but got **kicked out by a
receptionist**.  I talked about my projects and asked about their workflow
which was somewhat familiar (branch, review, stage, deploy). He was really nice
and thankfully asked questions that I could answer. Soon after the interview, I
found out I got made it through and had two more scheduled for the next
week...on the same day.

This gave me time to tend to my [DDoSed
Webserver](http://ngokevin.com/blog/web-server-back-up/index.html) and get my
website set back up again. I spent a large part of the weekend rebuilding my
website using [Wok](http://github.com/mythmon/wok) rather than Django as I had
no need for a nonstatic website and didn't have time to roll my own CMS.

My second interview was on a Monday noon with [James
Socol](http://jamessocol.com) who manages [SuMo](http://support.mozilla.com). I
wasn't quite awake all the way, got a bit nervous during the call, and was
talking a bit fast throwing in some "uhm"s a bit too often. At least this time,
I was in a nice quiet spot in my aparmtent, though it may have been too quiet.
After a bit I slowed myself down and answered questions about web scalability
and security.  After talking with James, I headed out to work.

My last interview was several hours later with [Mike
Morgan](http://morgamic.com), the director of web development who actually used
to work at OSU. I got home to my apartment, but there wasn't a private place to
hold a phone conversation...so I had the bright idea to do it in my car in the
parking lot. So I sat in my car around the time of the interview. I sat there
for about fifteen minutes staring at my phone until the call came. This time
the conversation was less of an interview and more of a chat. I told him what
kind of projects I would be interested in (more frontend stuff since I suck at
that) and learned what the internship would be like. By this time, I was told
my chances were looking good as they received a lot of applications and only
talked to a few and that they would take several.

The following day while checking my email as I normally do every few seconds, I
**received an offer** from Mozilla! I gave fridgei a high-five and obviously
accepted. I would then start the process of **dropping out of MECOP**. What a
relief, I would not want to work in Windows, .NET frameworks, quality
assurance, or any of that stuffy stuff.

Today, I received a call from Julie and [Kimber
Schlegelmilch](www.linkedin.com/in/kimberschlegelmilch), who had been helping
getting my availability and scheduling my interviews, about the internship...

- Three months in **Mountain View, California** (edit: I actually chose to skip
  spring term and work *five* months)

- Free transportation, housing, and laptop to keep (Macbook or Thinkpad)

- Choice of housing between sharing a condo with other interns or being
  allotted money to find own housing

- *Double* the pay of what I would get in MECOP (too much)

- Fun events (e.g. barbeques, picnics, baseball games, field trips)

- Talks from prominent people from around the area (e.g. CEO of
  [mint.com](http://mint.com))

- Long-term commitment to Mozilla

What a dream job, and I'm pretty excited. I'll be surrounded by extremely
intelligent people, the work I will do there would make my current work look
trivial, I get to work on a large-scale open source project, and of course the
place is a stone's throw from the bay. Until then, I'm going to try to get **a
lot** better at web development, specifically Javascript so I adapt in smoothly
. Can't wait, and throughout the whole interview process everyone was really
nice. Thanks to everyone I talked to and Mozilla!


