title: "My Dad, the Ultimate Shell"
category: blog
author: Kevin Ngo <ngoke@onid.oregonstate.edu>

datetime: 2011-11-07 2:30:00

---

It was a frantic day that included rushing to get wireless drivers working on
my [reinstalled](http://ngokevin.com/blog/web-server-back-up/index.html)
wireless headless server (which you are reading from now the story ends well).
Time was running short as I had tickets to LaMarcus Aldridge's charity
[basketball game][bb] at University of Portland.  It was the second time I
struggled to do so though you'd think it'd be easier now that I have know how
to configure wpa-supplicant, but alas I am no elephant. After about an hour
attempting to grab drivers from the Debian sources, the manufacturer's website
(which had a broken Makefile I tried to fix), my dad *reminded* me that I had
previously used the driver CD it came with for Windows which I had used to
install via [ndiswrapper][ndiswrapper].

Thus, with a jolt to the memory, I got wireless up and running and rushed off
to see some **Brandon Roy and Kevin Durant**...except Roy didn't even make an
appearance. The game was largely disappointing and awkward as the crowd got
bored and silent from the players chucking up 3s and missing layups...although
there were some occassional highlights, but more potential highlights that
failed. Halftime featured awful University of Portland dancers that seemed to
be three dimensions removed from post-modern. With University of Portland a
Catholic institution, my friend and I joked to them as **"Hell's Angels"**,
sent from the pits of hell itself to bore us to death. However, it was redeemed
by a 4'5 kid deftly impersonating Michael Jackson and doing the **Dougie** with
Nate Robinson.

I drove back to Corvallis (and upon arrival discovered my roommates had thrown
away my **bananas** on suspicion of riling up fruit flies), and tried to get
onto [ngokevin.com](http://ngokevin.com)...it wouldn't connect! 100 miles away
from my webserver and I couldn't do anything. I figured that my router's DHCP
must have *leased my server a new IP*, and I needed to open up ports to the
newly leased IP. Stupid me for not having enough time to give it a static IP
address.

However, I did not fear as I knew **my dad** was on-site. I called him up and
used him as a proxy Bash shell. My voice was the keyboard, and he was my
display. It took us about 2 minutes to communicate that I wanted him to run
*sudo ifconfig* and what my root password was... 

*"x?" "no, f", "x?" "F!", "b?" "f as in fox!"*

After getting ifconfig up, we noted what my local IP was. Then I had him go into the
router settings and check what IP port 80 was forwarding too...it was **my old
leased IP**. I enthusiastically asked him to flip it to the new one and
**boom**, ngokevin.com was back in action!

Welcome back again, ngokevin.com! May you live as long as Jack Harkness.

[bb]:http://www.blazersedge.com/2011/11/7/2543758/media-row-report-rip-city-basketball-classic-home-164-away-157
[ndiswrapper]:https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper
