title: "Goals Before Mozilla"
category: blog
author: Kevin Ngo <ngoke@onid.oregonstate.edu>

date: 2012-03-21

---

It's been a tough last three weeks filled with projects, papers, and studying.
Before, the term was going at a mellow pace. Then uberj said about
three-quarters of the way into the term, "dude, I'm can't work anymore, I have
to focus on school". Well, we're in mostly the same courses so I went to see
what was up. It had occurred to me that most of my courses were fairly
project-based, and everything was going to begin to pile up. I even went as far
as to create a checklist on Google Calendar. Luckily, I saw pile-up coming from
2 miles up the highway and took precautions. I went into "the mode", or the
**"academic Super Saiyan"**, the ultimate peak of productivity. It was the
longest three weeks.

But now it's over. Though, I still feel the need to be hyper-productive. I
feel as if I stoppped and relaxed, I'd feel empty inside and instead go and
play video games or something. It's like I just drank a massive energy
drink, and I don't want the energy to go away or else I'd begin to crash
and feel terrible. Feeding off the lingering hyper-productivity from the
last weeks of school I have several projects I want to knock down to warm
up before I head to Mozilla. Since the checklist was a nice motivator and
worked so well for me previously, here's a list of programming-related
goals and objectives.

- Port Javascript image gallery to Backbone.js to JQuery.
- Implement user authorization system in
  [Cyder](http://github.com/uberj/cyder), uberj's DNS/DHCP web manager work
  project.
- Write a OSU CS survival guide book for other students featuring guides.
  and advice, my quality time with Latex this term will come in use
- Play enough with d3.js to create some sort of data visualization in Cyder
  (network topography, hive plots).
- Get blog post tagging on this site.

Now, I do other things than just program (well, sometimes). Here's some
real-life goals and objectives.

- Get Google I/O tickets!
- Be able to create my own jump shots and hit them in pick-up basketball
  games.
- Be able to overhead press 110lbs and bench my own weight.

