title: "Simple CSS3 - Transitions and Transforms"
type: blog
category: blog
author: Kevin Ngo <ngoke@onid.oregonstate.edu>

slug: "css3"

date: 2012-03-25

---

Today, I created CSS3 hover effects for my [contact](contact) page. CSS3
comes with the ability to do transitions and transforms. Before, these
effects would be done through Javascript. Being to be able to do
higher-level presentation logic where presentation logic should be really
simplifies web design.

CSS3 is rolled out amongst all modern browsers, although currently the
experimental prefix tags (e.g -moz, -webkit) are required.

###Transitions

CSS3 transitions allow smooth and easily-specified transitions of CSS
properties from one value to another. This could be done to fade or animate
an element. Transitions can take four arguments.

- Transition-property: choose which properties to transition (can also
  select "all")
- Transition-duration: duration of transition
- Transition-timing-function: what cubic bezier curve transition should
  follow (e.g. ease, linear, ease-in, ease-out, ease-in-out)
- Transition-delay: how long before the transition starts

Below is a simple structure for transitioning an arbitrary property.

    ::css
    .myClass {
        someProperty: {{value before}};
        transition: someProperty {{duration}} {{timingFunction}} {{delay}};
    }
    .myClass:hover {
        someProperty: {{value after}};
    }

myClass is initially has a value set for some property. A transition is
defined for that property. If the property changes such as through an event
(e.g. hover), the transition will handle the change. After the transition,
element fires "transitioned" event which is accessible by Javascript (check
for the specific event keyword which currently varies by browser).

###Transforms

In CSS3, there are a handful defined transform functions.

- rotate(angle)
- scale(x, [y])
- scaleX(x)
- scaleY(y)
- skew(angleX, angleY)
- translate(x, [y])
- translateX(x)
- translateY(y)

For scale and translate, if only one argument is supplied, both x and y
will be acted upon. CSS3 transforms are just like declaring any other
property.

    ::css
    transform: function(value);

Transforms work nicely with transitions. Say we want to make an element
seem like it's falling onto the page with scale and opacity when hovered
over. We set the element to initially be very large and transparent, then
we scale it down to make it seem like it's falling and going away from the
screen.

    ::css
    element {
        opacity: 0;
        transform: scale(10);
        transition: all .3s ease-in;
    }
    element:hover {
        opacity: 100;
        transform: scale(1);
    }

And that's all there is to it. This is the most basic of examples. To learn
more about CSS3, MDN is one of the best places to go to for their
references on [transitions][moztransitions] and
[transforms][moztransforms], or anything else related to the web in
general.

[contact]:/contact
[moztransitions]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en/CSS/CSS\_transitions
[moztransforms]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en/CSS/transform


