title: "Dungeons and Dragons: The Tale of Kiirion (Part One)"
category: blog
author: Kevin Ngo <ngoke@onid.oregonstate.edu>

slug: "dnd1"

date: 2012-03-16

---

This is the legend of my elven cleric, Kiirion. His journey, his battles, his
sacrifice. [Cue opening theme](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LTtfFVC0gF4).

Kiirion was the healer of his elven village. He was a well-respected and
orderly figure. As he grew up, he observed the surrounding forest and its
abundance of life. Through this knowledge, he was able to channel the life
energy of the environment to cure the sick and wounded. The village was
healthy with Kiirion watching over it. Then the plague hit.

He stood on the outskirts of village with petrified look. A violent disease
had pillaged its way through the forest, turning everyone into stone. Kiirion
had been out searching for ingredients for a remedy. He grew angry with
himself, wishing he too had been turned to rock alongside his family. His
self-pity eventually faded, and he took on a quest to create a cure.

Kiirion went to go check out the cave deep in the forest. Perhaps the
mushrooms that grew deep underground could contain a vital ingredient. The
elders considered the area a taboo, but taboos were the last thing on the
young cleric's mind. He creeped his way into the entrance of the cave, using
the walls to guide him through the darkness. As he made his way deeper and
deeper, he began to feel uneasy. After some traversing of the cave, Kiirion
stopped to regain his bearings. The uneasy feeling began to grow close.
It did not take long for the uneasiness to close onto him. He turned around
to see a dark shadow raise its weapon and strike him unconscious.

As he gained consciousness, he found it difficult to move. His eyes opened to
find him bound to a pole. To his rear, he felt another being also bound. He
noticed something strange however; the being had a hard exterior, almost like
armor. Around him, Kiirion noticed several goblins eating over at the table
on the other side of the room. It looked like what was a mess hall or
cafeteria. Before he was able to being to devise a plan for escape, the door
creaked opened. In popped the head of a stubby, bearded man. A dwarf.

