title: "One Year at NET"
type: blog
category: blog
author: Kevin Ngo <ngoke@onid.oregonstate.edu>

slug: "net"

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/NxJhU.jpg
    where: top

date: 2012-04-02

---

It's been a year since I started working at OSU's Network Engineering Team
([NET][net]) as a programmer, and I have few words (mostly happy swearing) to
say how awesome it's been. I'd probably be lying face-down in in some ditch
somewhere had I not been hired. I've met many smart people, picked up the art
of hacking, been within three feet of Linus Torvalds, and nabbed an internship
at Mozilla. NET is one of the sweetest places to work on campus, heck I'd work
for free (don't tell my bosses).

NET "provides data hosting, networking, phone services, and conferencing
solutions for the OSU community". Basically, NET keeps OSU's network beating.
Every time there's slow Internet, NET lubes it up. And every time there's
outage or attack, NET is on the scene. Without NET, students would not be able
to log onto Facebook. Oh, the tragedy. NET runs about three data centers on
campus, two of which are in Kerr, with another data center on the way (plopping
it right on some farmland). Now that we sort of know what NET is, let me amuse
myself with some retrospection.

I heard about the opening at NET from [uberj](uberj) who had already been
working there. I told him, "I'm a pleb! I need to find a job and become
awesome". Funny thing, uberj was my TA for a freshman CS course. I was taking
it in my second year since I skipped it my freshman year. He noticed we were in
the same classes and that I was browsing Reddit (before it became Digg). Lucky,
had I taken that course as a freshman like everyone else, tested out of it, or
had I not been browsing Reddit, I'd be probably be in that ditch I mentioned
earlier. I pinged him on IRC for details, emailed my resume, went on with life
for a bit. After a bit of waiting, I received an interview.

I was interviewed by three people, two bouses and a student. "Three people?", I
thought. I was caught a bit off-guard by that. At that point, I hadn't realized
that it was actually a programming job. Unfortunately, I acted as if I was
interviewing for a helpdesk job. The best things I had programmed at the time
were a lame network chat client, lame network tic-tac-toe game, a lame (and
broken) DNS client, and some programming challenges. All I knew was C and Java,
and their language was Python. I was not confident that I could program
anything useful though I wanted to learn. I wanted to learn, and I had a black
belt in Google-Fu (yeah, that was on my resume). Apparently, that was enough.

Surprisingly, I found out I got the job via email one day while I was lounging
around during spring break. I had been trying to step my game up and was
programming a heads-up poker system in Java (my secret first GitHub project).
But forget everything about that. Along with my full scholarship offer and Mozilla
offer, that job offer was a "your life gonna change" moment. I started work the day
after spring break.

I buzzed into the loud humming of the data center, and walked into a small
quieter room within the data center to meet my co-workers. I go up to shake one
of the guy's hand and introduce myself. He stares at me for a bit and turns
away. He turns back around while writing something on a small scratch pad, "my
name is David, welcome to NET bro!". uberj turns around and tells me that he's
mute. "Oh...nice to meet you", I say sort of surprisingly. All of while this is
happening, limed, the boss, is shaking is head disapprovingly at the massive
trolling. It really was 'welcome to NET, bro'.

[net]:http://oregonstate.edu/net
[uberj]:http://uberj.com

