title: "Plastic Surgery, Quick Web Design Tips"
type: blog
category: blog

slug: "webdesignhacks"

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/MIVvm.jpg
    where: right

date: 2012-11-13

---

Last weekend, I built a site for a new club on campus as my first freelance gig
(though I also handled the domain name and hosting). For the past couple
months, I have been interested in visual design and user experience. This
design exhibits some tricks I often use and recently learned to make things
look pretty. I dub this plastic surgery, as it is a quick and simple path to
beautification.

### Building a Color Palette

The color palette defines the "mood" of the site. However, it is more important
that your selected colors don't clash. Just like in music, dissonance is not
pleasant to the senses. You can use
[colorschemedesigner](http://colorschemedesigner.com) to get ideas on what
colors work well together and simply browse for colors.

In the example above, I simply opt to use browned-orange as a primary color to
match the header logo and with rare bits of turquoise blue as a complement.
Since the site is dark-themed, I only used a two-color palette since
dark-themed designs already have depth and busy-ness.

Lastly, don't use pure black and pure white without good reason. Black and
white stand out very strongly and obnoxiously demand attention. Instead use
off-blacks and off-whites. You can even add some saturation to give your black
and white colors the most slightest hint of color.

If using a CSS preprocessor, pre-define your colors as global constants and
always use those constants in your CSS color rules (e.g. color: $blue). And as
mentioned earlier, also define your off-blacks and off-whites as constants
(e.g. $black: rgb(10, 10, 10), $white: rgb(245, 245, 245))

####Conclusion

- [colorschemedesigner](colorschemedesigner.com)
- Keep a simple palette.
- Use off-blacks and off-whites over pure black and pure white.
- Saturate your blacks and whites for subtle color.
