---
title: "Bootstrapping CRUD-Heavy Django Apps with CBVs"
type: blog
layout: blog
date: 2012-04-22
id: django-cbv
tags: code
---

CRUD-heavy web applications usually implement similar operations on many
similar objects. It is especially important to practice DRY (don't repeat
yourself) in these kinds of codebases. Maintaining code becomes much easier
by having a generic base code that can be subclassed or extended to fulfill
specific needs. Using these concepts can simplify code down to zero-LOC
templates and zero-LOC views.

---

## Django Class-Based Generic Views

Django class-based generic views (CBVs) are like a set of prebuilt views
that ships with a lot of commonly used features that can easily be
overidden. For example, TemplateView, the most basic CBV simply displays a
template which is simple enough to place in the urls.py.

```python
# urls.py
from django.views.generic import TemplateView

urlpatterns = patterns('',
    url(r'^$', TemplateView.as_view(template_name='index.html'))
)
```

When we point our urls.py towards a view, we invoke the *as_view* function
to sort of turn the class into a view. For a CRUD app, there are several
very useful generic views.

- django.views.generic.list.ListView
- django.views.generic.detail.DetailView
- django.views.generic.edit.CreateView
- django.views.generic.edit.UpdateView
- django.views.generic.edit.DeleteView

## Implementing a Generic View

Since the generic views have a lot in similar in the way they're used,
we'll use ListView as an example. Since this is a post about inheritance,
let's create a base ListView that other apps' ListViews can inherit from.

```python
# base/views.py
from django.views.generic import ListView

class BaseListView(ListView):
    template_name = 'base/base_list.html'
    paginate_by = 30
```

**And that's it!** Short, right? It could be even shorter by omitting the
*template_name* variable; the CBVs by default look for a template at
*APPNAME/APPNAME_VIEWNAME* if not template name is given. So for this
ListView in the base app, it would look at 'base/base\_list.html', and
DetailView would look at 'base/base\_detail.html' and so on.

In the urls.py, simply import the view and call *as_view()* on it like with
the TemplateView before.

## Writing the Template

For ListView, if paginate\_by is defined, Django will paginate the list of
objects if necessary. In the template, we can refer to the list of objects
with *object\_list* and the pagination object as 'page\_obj'. Ignore the
*my\_header* for now.

```jinja
{% extends "base.html" %}

{% block title %}
    Generic Objects
{% endblock %}

<h1>
    {% block header %}
        {{ my_header }}
    {% endblock %}
</h1>

{% if page_obj.has_next() %}
    <a href="?page={{ page_obj.next_page_number() }}"Next</a>
{% endif %}

{% for obj in object_list %}
    {{ obj }}
{% endfor %}
```

## Extending our BaseListView

Take for example an app called *books* that lets us CRUD books in a
database. Let's use our BaseListView to create a ListView for books.

```python
# book/views.py
from app.base.views import BaseListView
from app.book.models import Book

class BookView(object):
    model = Book
    queryset = Book.objects.all()

class BookListView(BookView, BaseListView):
    """ """
```

We can even get away with only this but we say we want to specify some
fine-grained details.  Let's add a context variable to access in the
template.

```python
# book/views.py
class BookListView(BookView, BaseListView):

    def get_context_data(self, **kwargs:
        context = super(BaseListView, self).get_context_data(**kwargs)
        context['my_header'] = 'List of Books'
        return context
```

We overwrote the parent's *get_context_data* which contains the variables
to be passed into the templates to add another variable. Here, we'll add an
arbitrary name for the page header. Now we can leave it and have it point
to the base list template we wrote earlier, or we can have it look for it
within the books app.  Paired along with template inheritance, we barely
have to write any code once the infrastructure is set up.

```jinja
{% extends "base.html" %}

{% block title %}
    Books
{% endblock %}
```

Django CBVs have been in the dark for some time and are becoming
increasingly popular. Throw away all of those function-based views that
seem very similar to each other and go generic.

