---
title: "The Serenity of a 5pm Bedtime"
type: blog
layout: blog
date: 2013-02-23
id: 5pm
tags: life

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/fGDie3f.jpg
    where: top
---

We know of tangled sleep schedules, and we have all had your struggles with
them. But sometimes sleep schedules can become so twisted, that they just
happen to morph into something quite ordered. The figurative eye of a typhoon.
Such was the case with my sleep schedule. One dawn, I took to bed around the
wee hours of 7am with the expectation of only a couple hours shut-eye. After a
short day, I fell into bed at 5pm. Then something quite magical happened.

I had stumbled upon a perfect sleep schedule. Love at first nap. Going to bed
at 5pm and naturally waking up a bit past midnight.

The reversed day presents itself.

---

##1am to 8am: Distraction-Free Work, Study, and Leisure

The night is long, quiet, serene. My mind is refreshed. It is just Pandora, my
computer, and me. Most of the Internet is sleeping, and there is little
content being generated.  Once I exhaust Facebook, Reddit, Hacker News, etc, the
Internet is effectively out of my way. I put in some productive work (web
development), and studies, with a clear head.

I could also use this time for leisure to work on pet projects, watch some
shows, do whatever I would normally do after 5pm on a 9-to-5 day.

*this is also cool since I start my day at the same time as overseas
coworkers (e.g. the UK).*

##8am to 9am: Exercise

The sun has risen, the leaves are frosted with dew, and the streets are mostly
empty apart from the early-rising joggers. Many people are sleeping, and
importantly, the gyms are empty. During normal hours my local gym is full,
which caused me to work out around 11pm which made it hard to fall asleep. But
in the morning, it is wide open. I get my work-outs and basketball shootaround
done in a snap, and I am envigorated for the rest of the day.

##9am to 10am: "Breakfast"

I suppose in a 9-to-5 day, this would technically be lunch, but it still feels
like breakfast. The restaurants are still serving breakfast food, which I do
not mind at all. Who wouldn't want bacon for lunch? A work-out followed by a
meal, I have a full head of steam for the day.

##10am to 5pm: Work and School

Now I simply do what I would normally do during the business hours of the day.
I go to work and I go to classes. Everyone is awake, I am awake, and most
coworkers are available on-hand.

##5pm to 1am: Sleep!

I go to bed while the sun is setting and things are quieting down. I fall
naturally asleep with no problem, and wake up naturally with no grogginess. No
alarms involved.

This schedule works well for me. Rather than the day involving going to work
and then having free time, I spend my free time first and then go to work.  As
with everything seemingly perfect, there are big caveats. Outside of 8am-5pm, I
am out-of-sync with society; I go to sleep while people are hanging out, and I
am awake while everyone else is sleeping. But for a somewhat introverted
university student that works mostly remote and interacts with people mostly
from class and work, this will do nicely until I am out of school.

Until then, I will contently rest in the blankets of happiness and serenity
that is the 5pm sleep schedule.

*Burn the land and boil the sea, you can't take my bed from me.*
