---
title: "Poker Sess.24 - Thin Value-Betting"
type: blog
category: blog
date: 2015-05-18
id: poker24
tags: [poker]

image:
    url: http://i.imgur.com/iojz9LQ.jpg
    caption: Using the force at Bay-to-Breakers.
---

Return of the [Pete's 881 Club](http://petes881club.com/). The poker addiction
is Sidious. Last Friday after a night at Off the Grid, I went down **-$110** in
a 2/5NL cash game, a case of card-dead, but I lost the minimum, and it could
have gone worse. Then on Sunday I played a deepstack tourney and dropped my
**-$120** buy-in, I was playing close-to-perfect but got sucked out on after
someone tried a stop-and-go bluff. Tonight, I went up a **+$500** buy-in in
about an hour in the 2/5NL cash game. I admit I ran a little hot, but I'll take
it as a reward for enduring the cold. And as usual, I always blog after a good
night while ignoring the bad ones.

I walked into Pete's, an older Vietnamese regular yelled "ah, you go to school,
then come here?" as I had my backpack. I had brought my laptop to work while I
was waiting for a seat. The waitress also IDed me. #curryface.

---

## Thin Value-Betting

Probably one of my weaknesses right now is value-betting thin, which is betting
a marginal hand which you think is most likely good. Though I have shown some
strides, I miss a lot of value on the river by betting too small or not
raising.

An example of a hand where I could have gotten more value:

- I raise JQ on the small blind against an spewy player. I flop trips (JJx). I
bet the flop, he calls. Turn comes an Ace. I check, he bets huge, I call. The
river comes a blank. I check, and he bets a large amount again with a bit
behind. At this point, I should have shoved. I was too scared of being
out-kicked or full-housed, whereas I could have gotten a lot of value from
smaller kickers or an Ace.

An example of a hand that is pretty thin, but value-betting more was an option:

- I raise AKs in UTG+1. SB calls. Flop comes AJx. He check-raises me, I call.
The turn puts out a flush, he checks the turn, I check back. At this point, I
could have bet/fold here if I did some hand-reading. A likely holding for him
is an Ace, a Jack come crazy, or maybe the flush. However, a check here for pot
control with my one pair seems good in hindsight. The river is a blank. He
checks again. I deliberated whether or not to value-bet, and I ended up betting
a small amount. If he had an Ace, he would probably be scared of a flush or
larger Ace. A Jack probably would fold. A flush would raise. So it would be
pretty thin to value-bet here, but a small value-bet to get even a Jack to call
seems good.

An example of a hand where I pulled the trigger on thin value-betting:

- I raise 3bet JJ over an UTG+1 raiser in a tourney. He calls. Flop comes
236 with a flush draw. I bet, and he calls. At this point, his range is
two overs with a flush draw or an overpair. There are more combos of flush
draws and overpairs that I beat than overpairs that I lose to. The turn is a
blank, so I barrel another bet.
